Smartphones and computers are now exempt from Trump’s latest tariffs


CNN

Electronics imported to the United States will be exempt from President Donald Trump’s reciprocal tariffs, according to a US Customs and Border Protection notice posted late Friday.

Smartphones, computer monitors and various electronic parts are among the exempted products. The exemption applies to products entering the United States or removed from warehouses as early as April 5, according to the notice.

The exemption, which comes after the Trump administration on Wednesday imposed a minimum tariff rate of 145% on Chinese goods imported to the United States, does not include the 20% tariff on Chinese goods for the country’s role in the fentanyl trade. The tariff exemption would have a major impact on tech giants like Apple, which make iPhones and other products in China.

Roughly 90% of Apple’s iPhone production and assembly is based in China, according to Wedbush Securities’ estimates.

Analysts at Wedbush on Saturday called the tariff exclusion, “the best news possible for tech investors.”

“Big Tech firms like Apple, Nvidia, Microsoft and the broader tech industry can breathe a huge sigh of relief this weekend into Monday,” Wedbush said in a statement. “A big step forward for US tech to get these exemptions and the most bullish news we could have heard this weekend…now onto the next step in negotiations on the broader China tariff war which will take a number of months at least.”


Nvidia and Microsoft declined to comment to CNN. Apple did not immediately respond to a request for comment.

Counterpoint Research, a firm that monitors global smartphone shipments, estimated Apple has up to six weeks of inventory in the United States. Once that supply runs out, prices would have been expected to go up.

The White House said on Saturday that Trump will continue to urge tech companies to move production to the United States.

“President Trump has made it clear America cannot rely on China to manufacture critical technologies such as semiconductors, chips, smartphones, and laptops. That’s why the President has secured trillions of dollars in U.S. investments from the largest tech companies in the world, including Apple, (Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company), and Nvidia. At the direction of the President, these companies are hustling to onshore their manufacturing in the United States as soon as possible,” White House press secretary Karoline Leavitt said in a statement.

Trump had told reporters Friday on Air Force One that there could be possible exclusions to his sweeping tariffs.

“There could be a couple of exceptions for obvious reasons, but I would say 10% is a floor,” Trump said.

Economists have warned the cost of tariffs may ultimately be passed on to the consumer. That fear has sent many Americans rushing to buy big-ticket items, such as cars and electronics, as consumer sentiment has dropped to record lows.

Nintendo said on April 4 that it would postpone the US preorder date of its Switch 2 gaming console to “assess the potential impact of tariffs and evolving market conditions.” Initially priced at $450, the Switch 2 could instead cost around $600 as a result of tariffs, according to experts.

The Trump administration says these tariffs would bring more manufacturing jobs to the United States and reverse a decades-long decline. But some products can’t be easily made or found in the United States, thus increasing the costs to produce them in American factories.

Semiconductors and microchips are among the products heavily outsourced to factories in Asia due to lower costs. Those electronic parts are now exempt, according to the Friday notice. That could help Asian chipmakers, such as Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company (TSMC), South Korea’s Samsung and SK Hynix.

“The president has stated that autos, steel, pharmaceuticals, chips and other specific materials will be included in specific tariffs to ensure tariffs are applied fairly and effectively,” a White House official said.

The official said Trump would soon order a study on the national security effects on semiconductor imports — known as a Section 232 study.

At a Republican National Congressional Committee event on Tuesday, Trump criticized the Biden administration’s decision to award a $6.6 billion grant to TSMC for semiconductor production in Phoenix as part of the 2022 CHIPS and Science Act. Trump said he gave TSMC no money and told the company “if you don’t build your plant here, you’re going to pay a big tax — 25, maybe 50, maybe 75, maybe 100%.”

CNN’s Kevin Liptak and Lisa Eadicicco contributed to this report.

This story has been updated with additional content.




===ARTICLE_SEPARATOR===

Will the U.S.-China tariff war drive up online shopping prices for Canadians?

Clicking "add to cart" may soon come with some additional sticker shock.

As tariff pressures force some sellers in China to increase their prices for U.S. markets, some retail experts say Canadians shopping online could potentially feel the ripple effects on everything from electronics to socks.

This comes as U.S. President Donald Trump hiked duties on Chinese goods to 145 per cent this week, raising the stakes in a trade war that threatens to upend global supply chains. In response, Beijing on Friday increased its tariffs on U.S. imports to 125 per cent.

China hits back at Trump's tariff hike with 125% duties on U.S. goods
Canada may have avoided a new round of tariffs, but it doesn't mean we won't be affected by the China-U.S. trade war eventually, said Jean-François Ouellet, an associate professor in entrepreneurship and innovation at business school HEC Montréal who specializes in international marketing.

"Canada is often caught in the crossfire," Ouellet told CBC News.

This Sunday, Cross Country Checkup is asking: What questions do you have about surviving the trade war ... and a possible recession? Leave your comment here and we may read it or call you back for our show
That's because many e-commerce orders placed on Canadian sites — including Amazon.ca — are fulfilled from the United States or routed through U.S. distribution centres, he said.

"If those goods are made in China, and the U.S. slaps new tariffs on them, the increased cost may get passed on to Canadian shoppers — especially if the product crosses into the U.S. before arriving in Canada."

WATCH | U.S. tariffs on China could lead to price hikes in Canada:

U.S. tariffs on China could increase prices in Canada

4 days ago
Duration2:00
With Chinese goods facing a 104 per cent tariff from the U.S., some businesses are looking to adapt their supply chains to avoid higher costs, but others say they face no choice but to pass the price increase on to consumers.
Will Amazon prices go up?
It's looking that way in the U.S., at least.

China's largest cross-border e-commerce association said on Wednesday that many Chinese companies that sell products on Amazon are preparing to boost prices for the U.S. or quit the market due to the tariffs.

Chinese Amazon sellers to hike prices or exit U.S. market as tariffs soar, association says
This sentiment was echoed by Amazon CEO Andy Jassy, who told CNBC on Thursday it's likely that its network of millions of third-party sellers — many of which are based in China or source their products from there — will have to pass the cost along to consumers.

By Friday, it had already started happening. Chinese electronics company Anker, which is one of Amazon's largest sellers, raised prices on a fifth of its products on the U.S. platform.

What about Amazon.ca?
It's less clear how this will affect Canadian consumers on Amazon.ca, explained Nicholas Li, an associate economics professor at Toronto Metropolitan University.

Theoretically, the domain name doesn't necessarily correlate with warehousing and distribution, Li said. For example, you can buy products shipped from other countries on Amazon.ca.

"But in practice, most of the goods you would see on Amazon.ca are warehoused in Canada, and the prices are already inclusive of any tariffs," he said.

A truck is being loaded or unloaded by a man who is in the middle of hoisting a box. A number of other boxes are scattered on the ground around him. The truck says "Prime" on the side. 
An Amazon Prime driver makes a delivery in Pittsburgh on March 10. Most of the goods available on Amazon.ca are warehoused in Canada, a retail expert says. (Gene J. Puskar/The Associated Press)
So if a customer orders from Amazon.ca, they will not likely see price increases from U.S.-Chinese tariffs, said Samuel Roscoe, a lecturer in operations and supply chain management at the University of British Columbia's Sauder School of Business.

Goods coming through U.S. warehouses or distribution networks, however, could "still be hit by the ripple effects," Ouellet, of HEC Montréal, added.

Could other shopping sites be affected?
Popular online shopping sites like Temu, Shein and Walmart.ca could be affected by the China-U.S. tariffs, both Li and Ouellet said. Last year, for example, Chinese sellers accounted for 28 per cent of all active sellers on the Walmart website, according to Marketplace Pulse, a firm that collects data on e-commerce businesses.

A growing number of e-commerce orders — especially from platforms like Temu, Shein, or even third-party Amazon sellers — are dropshipped directly from China to the customer, Ouellet said.

What is dropshipping — why is it suddenly trending as the ultimate side hustle?
While these shipments often bypass U.S. tariffs, if Canada were to follow the U.S. lead or increase inspections, duties or postal handling fees, it could quickly affect prices or delivery times, he added.

"And if U.S. policy disrupts global shipping lanes or creates uncertainty in sourcing, even direct-from-China dropshipping could become more expensive over time."

OK, but are Canadian shopping sites safe?
Many Canadian companies manufacture items in China. Aritzia, Lululemon and Canadian Tire, for example, all manufacture some of their products overseas and sell them south of the border — although some are working to shift production outside China.

If these goods are imported via the U.S. or if raw materials are affected by tariffs, production costs can rise, Ouellet said, adding that larger companies may have more flexibility in their supply chains to adapt in the short term.

Lululemon and Aritzia also have distribution centres in Canada, Roscoe said, which allows them to avoid tariffs.

WATCH | What does 'Made in Canada' mean?:

What’s the difference between ‘Made in Canada’ and ‘Product of Canada’?

2 months ago
Duration1:05
Looking to buy Canadian in response to the trade war with the U.S.? Here’s the difference between goods labelled ‘Made in Canada’ and ‘Product of Canada.’
What items could rise in price the most?
Electronics (such as phones, accessories and small appliances), apparel, footwear and housewares are likely to be the hardest hit, Ouellet said.

"These are categories where China has long been a dominant supplier, and many of these items travel through U.S. logistics hubs before reaching Canadian consumers," he said.

Apparel brands grappling with 'tariff hell,' says Canadian industry group
Cross-border order pickups in tight-knit Montana-Alberta communities hit hard by tariff talks
In principle, goods that are imported into the U.S. for re-export to Canada shouldn't be subject to U.S. tariffs, Ouellet said, but in reality, real-world logistics are "messy" with a lot of room for error.

"U.S. customs agents are already overwhelmed, and the rules around tariffs right now are mind-boggling," he said.

"Goods meant for re-export to Canada might get mistakenly classified and taxed, or suppliers might decide it's just safer and easier to build those potential costs into their prices — which ultimately trickles down to the Canadian shopper."

Women standing over tables filled with identical rain boots
Workers check boots for export at a factory in Lianyungang, in China's Jiangsu province, in March 2024. Apparel and footwear could be some of the items most affected by tariff-related price increases. (AFP/Getty Images)
When will we see prices go up?
Li, of Toronto Metropolitan University, points out that there was a lot of stocking up of inventory and pre-emptive importing in anticipation of these tariffs. So some of the price changes might be delayed due to a "wait and see" approach, he said.

This is especially true for Canadians, Li added, since the impact here is more indirect.

"But by delay, I mean months, not years."

Is there a silver lining for Canada anywhere?
Both Ouellet and Li say there's a chance some prices for Canadian consumers could actually go down, depending on how things play out. For example, if U.S. tariffs on Chinese producers make it harder for them to sell to the U.S., this may lead them to lower their prices in other markets like Canada, Li said.

And if U.S.-China trade grinds to a halt, China will likely look to redirect its exports elsewhere, Ouellet said, which could benefit Canadian consumers in some categories if surplus supply floods the market.

"So we might see higher prices on some products that pass through the U.S.," he said, "but also unexpected bargains on others, especially from sellers shipping directly from China to Canadian buyers."



===ARTICLE_SEPARATOR===

'Google AI presented my April Fools' story as real news'

Every year, journalist Ben Black publishes a playful fake story on his community news site Cwmbran Life for April Fools' Day.

Since 2018 the 48-year-old has spun yarns including a Hollywood-style sign on a mountain to a nudist cold-water swimming club at a lake.

In 2020, Mr Black published a fake story claiming Cwmbran had been recognised by Guinness World Records for having the most roundabouts per square kilometre.

Despite altering the wording of his article that afternoon, when he searched for it on 1 April he said he was "shocked" and "worried" to find the false information being used by Google's AI tool and presented as real information.

Google said it was looking into the matter.


AI chatbots unable to accurately summarise news, BBC finds
Apple suspends error-strewn AI generated news alerts
Apple AI alert falsely claimed Luke Littler had already won darts final
Mr Black decided to begin writing fake stories for April Fools' Day for "a bit of fun" and said his wife usually helped him come up with the ideas.

The concept for his story in 2020 came from Cwmbran being a new town, where "often linking houses with roundabouts is the easiest way to build".

"I made up a number for the roundabouts per square kilometre and added a fake quote from a resident and clicked publish.

"It went down really well from memory, people laughed," he said.

That afternoon, Mr Black marked the story as an April Fools' prank to clarify it was not fake news to his readers.

However, the next day, he was "annoyed" to find it had been picked up by a larger national news website without his permission, and despite efforts to try and get the story removed, the story is still online.

Ben Black/Google A screenshot of a Google search page which shows the AI overview claiming that Cwmbran reportedly has the world highest concentration of roundabouts. Beneath is an article by LearnDrive reporting on the same story. Ben Black/Google
Journalist Ben Black says he was "shocked" to discover his fake news story from five years ago being used by Google AI
Mr Black said he had "forgotten all about it" until he searched for his previous stories on April Fools' Day this year.

He said he was surprised to discover the Google AI tool and a learning to drive website using his article to claim Cwmbran reportedly had the world's highest concentration of roundabouts.

He said: "It's really scary that someone in Scotland could Google 'roads in Wales' and come across a story that just isn't true.

"It's not a dangerous story, but it shows how fake news can easily spread even if it's from a trusted news source.

"Even though I changed it all the same day, it shows down the line the internet can do it's own thing. It's just crazy."


Mr Black said AI was becoming a growing threat to independent publishers, with many tools using their original content without permission and presenting it in different formats for others to benefit from.

"It is really frustrating because now no-one will visit our websites," he said.

He also pointed out that larger news websites had struck deals with AI firms for collaboration, but said: "There was no chance I'd be able to do that."

Although Mr Black decided not to publish a fake story for April Fools' Day this year because he was "too busy", he said the experience had put him off and made him decide not to publish a fake story again.




===ARTICLE_SEPARATOR===



Woman sentenced in case that sparked Springfield cat-eating rumours
4 December 2024

Share

Save
Mike Wendling
BBC News•@mwendling
Canton Police Department A woman with her hands behind her back surrounded by two officers, one shining a bright light at the camera, in a blurry imageCanton Police Department
Allexis Ferrell being led away by officers in a still from police bodycam footage
An American woman whose case was one of the sparks behind a baseless claims about Haitian immigrants has been sentenced to a year in prison for animal cruelty.

Authorities said that Allexis Ferrell, 27, attacked a cat in Canton, Ohio.

Ferrell is a US citizen and the incident happened about 170 miles (270km) away from a large Haitian community in Springfield, Ohio.

Her case was one of several incidents cited online, which fed into rumours about immigrant eating pets. The stories were eventually repeated by President-elect Donald Trump and his vice-presidential running mate, Ohio Senator JD Vance.


Ferrell was sentenced on Monday after previously pleading guilty to cruelty to companion animals.

She also was ordered to serve an additional 18 months for violating probation conditions from a previous child endangerment charge.

On 16 August, Canton police responded to a report of a woman smashing a cat’s head with her foot and eating the animal.

An officer saw blood on her feet and fur on her lips, according to local news reports.

According to the Canton Repository newspaper, Stark County Common Pleas Judge Frank Forchione told Ferrell: “This is repulsive to me. I mean, that anyone would do this to an animal.

“I can’t express the disappointment, shock, disgust that this crime has brought to me,” the judge said at the sentencing hearing.

Springfield grapples with false pet-eating rumours - and real problems
Trump repeats baseless claim about Haitian immigrants eating pets
In several posts online, Ferrell was falsely described as an immigrant.

However, Canton Police told the BBC that they had "not dealt with any complaints of Haitian immigrants at all."

Springfield police also denied the rumours, saying at the time: “There have been no credible reports or specific claims of pets being harmed, injured or abused by individuals within the immigrant community.”

Springfield is a city of about 60,000 people in south-west Ohio, where 12,000 to 20,000 Haitian immigrants have settled in recent years, mostly drawn by work in local factories.

Rumours about eating pets circulated in the city earlier this year, before the Canton incident. An unrelated post on Reddit appeared to show a man carrying a dead bird in Columbus, Ohio, and a Facebook message mentioning the rumours was posted on a Springfield crime board.

These disparate stories were grafted together by anti-immigrant and pro-Trump influencers online, forging an unsubstantiated rumour later repeated by Vance online – that foreigners were catching and consuming pets in Springfield.

During the presidential debate in September, Trump said: "In Springfield, they are eating the dogs. The people that came in, they are eating the cats.”

Vance later told CNN that the pet-eating stories were based on “first-hand account of my constituents” but did not provide further details.

The BBC has contacted Vance’s office.

"If I have to create stories so that the American media actually pays attention to the suffering of the American people, then that's what I'm going to do," he told CNN.

